README.md, before:

# Overview

Deform is a tool that allows migrating infrastructure management from `terraform` to `crossplane`.
It does this based on the terraform **state** (rather than the HCL code).

The imported infrastructure can be directly managed by crossplane. Deform introduces an intermediate layer of resources imported "raw" in crossplane. This just means that the structure and naming of each resource parameters is replicated directly from terraform.


# Prerequisites

1. Crossplane installed in your current kubernetes context,
2. Crossplane provider for your target cloud vendor installed and configured,
3. Basic tools installed:
    - `kubectl`
    - `jq`
    - `helm`
    - (optional) [yaml2json](https://github.com/bronze1man/yaml2json) - Only in case you need to generate extra translation configs (see below). But even then, if you don't have it, its functionality will be emulated with `kubectl`.
    - (optional) [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) - also only used for identifying additional translation configs.

## Translation configurations

Please refer to [OVERVIEW.md](OVERVIEW.md) for explanation of the functional components of `deform`.
At minimum, you need to understand that `deform` needs a set of **translation configs**
to be able to translate terraform resources to their crossplane counterparts.
Those configs come shipped with the project, but you can expect them to be incomplete.
Fortunately, the deform project also provides tooling to assist in the generation
of those - again, for the details, please refer to the OVERVIEW.md document.


# Workflow

## Preparation

1. Before you can use deform, you first need to pull the terraform state to a local file, in a standardized "show" format. You can do that in a single step like this: 

```
terraform show -json > my_tf_module-tf-show.json
```

**or** by first saving the `ftstate` with `terraform state pull > my.tfstate.json`
and then transforming it to the "show" format:
`terraform show -json my.tfstate.json > my_tf_module-tf-show.json`.
(At this point you can delete the intermediate `my.tfstate.json`.)

Once you have the `my_tf_module-tf-show.json` file, it is recommended to move it
into the `in` directory, so that you can reference it easily while calling
`deform`: `mv /path/to/my/terraform/my_tf_module-tf-show.json in/`

2. Also make sure you have the necessary translation configs for your `PROVIDER`, e.g.

```
ls -l aws/
```

If the project is missing some translations necessary in your use case,
please refer to the [OVERVIEW.md](OVERVIEW.md) document to learn how you can
generate those yourself. The tooling included with `deform` will aid you at this. 


## Main operation

1. Call `deform` to generate manifests from your terraform module:
```
./deform in/my_tf_module-tf-show.json
```

2. **Inspect** and then apply the generated manifests. This can be also done
automatically in previous step, if you set `AUTOAPPLY` env variable
to any value while invoking `deform`.

```
kubectl apply -f out/path_reported_by_deform_in_previous_step/xrds
# inspect...
kubectl apply -f out/path_reported_by_deform_in_previous_step/xrs
# inspect...
kubectl apply -f out/path_reported_by_deform_in_previous_step/compositions
```
   **Note: If you have configured your crossplane provider properly, the cloud resources you have imported with `deform` will now be controlled by the crossplane provider controller.**


---

# Project maturity level

This project is currently in a **Work In Progress** state. The functionality
described in the documentation has only been tested for a handful of use cases.
There is also a [TODO](TODO.md) file included.
All contributions are much appreciated! :heart:

Commit message:

README: add note about (lack of) support

README.md, after:

# Overview

Deform is a tool that allows migrating infrastructure management from `terraform` to `crossplane`.
It does this based on the terraform **state** (rather than the HCL code).

The imported infrastructure can be directly managed by crossplane. Deform introduces an intermediate layer of resources imported "raw" in crossplane. This just means that the structure and naming of each resource parameters is replicated directly from terraform.


# Prerequisites

1. Crossplane installed in your current kubernetes context,
2. Crossplane provider for your target cloud vendor installed and configured,
3. Basic tools installed:
    - `kubectl`
    - `jq`
    - `helm`
    - (optional) [yaml2json](https://github.com/bronze1man/yaml2json) - Only in case you need to generate extra translation configs (see below). But even then, if you don't have it, its functionality will be emulated with `kubectl`.
    - (optional) [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) - also only used for identifying additional translation configs.

## Translation configurations

Please refer to [OVERVIEW.md](OVERVIEW.md) for explanation of the functional components of `deform`.
At minimum, you need to understand that `deform` needs a set of **translation configs**
to be able to translate terraform resources to their crossplane counterparts.
Those configs come shipped with the project, but you can expect them to be incomplete.
Fortunately, the deform project also provides tooling to assist in the generation
of those - again, for the details, please refer to the OVERVIEW.md document.


# Workflow

## Preparation

1. Before you can use deform, you first need to pull the terraform state to a local file, in a standardized "show" format. You can do that in a single step like this: 

```
terraform show -json > my_tf_module-tf-show.json
```

**or** by first saving the `ftstate` with `terraform state pull > my.tfstate.json`
and then transforming it to the "show" format:
`terraform show -json my.tfstate.json > my_tf_module-tf-show.json`.
(At this point you can delete the intermediate `my.tfstate.json`.)

Once you have the `my_tf_module-tf-show.json` file, it is recommended to move it
into the `in` directory, so that you can reference it easily while calling
`deform`: `mv /path/to/my/terraform/my_tf_module-tf-show.json in/`

2. Also make sure you have the necessary translation configs for your `PROVIDER`, e.g.

```
ls -l aws/
```

If the project is missing some translations necessary in your use case,
please refer to the [OVERVIEW.md](OVERVIEW.md) document to learn how you can
generate those yourself. The tooling included with `deform` will aid you at this. 


## Main operation

1. Call `deform` to generate manifests from your terraform module:
```
./deform in/my_tf_module-tf-show.json
```

2. **Inspect** and then apply the generated manifests. This can be also done
automatically in previous step, if you set `AUTOAPPLY` env variable
to any value while invoking `deform`.

```
kubectl apply -f out/path_reported_by_deform_in_previous_step/xrds
# inspect...
kubectl apply -f out/path_reported_by_deform_in_previous_step/xrs
# inspect...
kubectl apply -f out/path_reported_by_deform_in_previous_step/compositions
```
   **Note: If you have configured your crossplane provider properly, the cloud resources you have imported with `deform` will now be controlled by the crossplane provider controller.**


---

# Project maturity level and support

This project is currently in a **Work In Progress** state. Note that,
even though it has been originally developed at Mendix Technology B.V.,
the company does not offer any support for it.
Functionality described in the documentation has only been tested for a handful of use cases.
There is also a [TODO](TODO.md) file included.
All contributions are much appreciated! :heart:
